URL: https://www.unipegaso.it/docenti/federico-nigro
Page Title: Docente Federico Nigro | Unipegaso

Federico Nigro Professore/ssa Associato/a federico.nigro@unipegaso.it Biografia Federico Nigro is an Associate Professor of Methods and Didactics of Motor Activities and Motor and Sports Activities: Techniques, Tools, and Contexts of Intervention at Pegaso University. He also serves as an Adjunct Professor of Physiological and Psychobiological Aspects of Sport at the University of Bologna. In July 2024, he earned his PhD in Exercise Physiology and Sport Science (Science and Culture of Well-being and Lifestyles) from the University of Bologna. In July 2024, he also received the National Scientific Habilitation (ASN) as an Associate Professor in the disciplinary sector 06/N2 (Exercise and Sport Sciences). A member of the European College of Sport Science (ECSS), he is the author of numerous international and national scientific publications (https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=twuAjyMAAAAJ&hl=it). His research focuses on integrating exercise physiology and training methodology, with a specific emphasis on validating novel tools for monitoring internal and external training loads. His work extends to the analysis of neuromuscular and biomechanical performance using advanced technologies. He has contributed to Research Projects of Significant National Interest (PRIN) and to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NRRP) project "MNESYS," which is centered on the multiscale study of the nervous system. He is a co-inventor of an international patent for an innovative system designed for explosive muscle strength training. He has extensive teaching experience at the University of Bologna, where he has taught courses in Training Theory and Methodology, Didactics of Team Sports, Exercise Physiology, and Biomechanics. He also teaches in national-level certification courses recognized by the CONI and CIP for various National Sports Federations (FIHP, FIHP ART, FIN, FIPE, FIPM, FICK, FIDS, FISI, FITRI, FIV, FIT, FCI, FIDAL, FIGH, FIPAV, FIP, FIH, FASI, FIPSAS, FIDAF, FIJLKAM, FGI). He has worked as a physical education teacher and strength and conditioning coach for various sports organizations. His academic expertise is complemented by nearly 20 years of competitive experience in Rugby Union, having played in Italian national leagues (Serie C2, C1, and B) and represented CUS Bologna in three Italian National University Championships (Catania 2005, Campobasso 2010, Torino 2011) in Rugby 7s. Facoltà Facoltà di Scienze umane, della formazione e dello sport Materia d'insegnamento - Metodi e didattiche delle attività motorie - Attività motorie e sportive: tecniche, strumenti e contesti d'intervento Ricevimento https://calendar.app.google/4e6Drd14kCJofqwY9 Modalità di prenotazione degli uffici Google Meet Codice ORCID 0000-0001-8123-4084