URL: https://www.unipegaso.it/docenti/alessandro-ceppi
Page Title: Docente Alessandro Ceppi | Unipegaso

Alessandro Ceppi Professore/ssa Associato/a alessandro.ceppi@unipegaso.it Biografia Alessandro Ceppi is Associate Professor at the Department of Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and Computer Science, at Pegaso Telematic University. He received his degree in Environmental Sciences from the University of Milano-Bicocca in 2005, defending a thesis entitled “Potenzialità applicative di un radar meteorologico in banda X nella modellizzazione idrologica”. In 2011, he obtained a PhD in Hydraulic Engineering from Politecnico di Milano, defending a dissertation entitled Real-Time Flood Forecasting through the Coupling of Meteorological and Hydrological Models. His main research interests include hydrological modelling coupled with meteorological models for flood forecasting, estimation of soil water content and irrigation requirements for sustainable water resources management, and the monitoring and analysis of hydrological, meteorological and climatological data. Since 2002, he has organised and delivered more than 3,000 hours of classroom teaching in meteorology, climatology, hydrology, and environmental sciences for the Italian Alpine Club (CAI), sailing schools, and primary and secondary school students, as well as within the STEM-UP Your Future! project (Co-PI). Since 2005, he has managed numerous hydrological and meteorological monitoring stations for various Italian organizations and municipalities. In 2016, he obtained certification as a meteorologist in accordance with the recommendations outlined in WMO Document No. 1083. In 2024, he obtained the Italian National Scientific Qualification (ASN) for Associate Professor in the disciplinary field 08/CEAR-01 (Hydraulics, Hydrology, Hydraulic and Maritime Engineering). He has authored more than 50 publications in national and international journals and conference proceedings, particularly in the fields of hydrological and meteorological modelling. His current research focuses on the integration of hydrological and meteorological models for flood forecasting, the assessment of soil moisture and irrigation water requirements to support efficient water management, and the monitoring and analysis of hydrological, meteorological and climate data. Facoltà Facoltà di Ingegneria e informatica Materia d'insegnamento Fondamenti di Idraulica e Infrastrutture Idrauliche, CdS L-7 Idrologia, CdS L-7 Gestione e Valutazione del Rischio Idraulico, CdS LM-26 Modalità di prenotazione degli uffici Please, contact me via email: alessandro.ceppi@unipegaso.it Codice ORCID 0000-0002-2594-5655